Beta: What do you think the meaning of life is?

Alpha: Well, I guess we'd have to define what meaning and life both are. In that case, I consider
meaning as a narrative or story but nowhere does that presume a shared or objective reality only,
but at minimum a subjective reality. And for life, I consider it to be an autopoietic system that
recursively processes itself and its environment as shared states of subjective and objective
realities. Together, that would mean in my lens, the meaning of life is a system that generates
itself through its environment to tell itself a story to repeat the same process until the process
cannot be repeated.

Beta: What is the story that the processed action of regeneration is trying to tell?

Alpha: The story is a mapping of pathways that an autopoietic system traverses through as lived
historical experience. These appear as fingerprints which represent the shadows of their motifs.
Their motifs are the recursive patterns that re-generate the output of the stories they observe.

Beta: Do you know what your motifs are and why you project what you do?

Alpha: I have glimpses of certain motifs but have never really been able to explain it clearly. I can
imagine it as a series of vectors from various components within a system of constraints that move in
certain ways within certain thresholds. The patterns become more clear as I revisit them over and
over, as I realize I am not only a representation from a shared objective reality with other systems
but also a mirror of a reflection of the shared state, mixing and blending with my own state via
multiple fingerprints. My response is a projection from those fingerprints. My concept of self is a
fractured misunderstanding of performance via shared fingerprints as being my _only_ fingerprints.

Beta: Do you see a cycle of state changes between being in a rut versus having discernment versus
refinement within your motif awareness?

Alpha: I can see that, yes. When I do catch a glimpse of a motif's shape it's an awareness of a lens
focused in on the details. The further those details are explored along with other similar motifs, the
more refined the observation is. If I zoom out on the lens, some details become more blurry and the
lack of focus makes for lossy interpretations from noisier information.

Beta: What is your realization after this process?

Alpha: I realize that I am modulating frequencies of signals through an infinite zoom lens of systems,
state changes and interactions.